.TH neorc 8
.SH NAME
neorc \- neoinit run control
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B neorc
[
.B \-[uodtko]
] [
.B \-P
.I pid
]
.I service
[\fI...\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B neorc
is the service management interface to neoinit.
.I service
is the service directory name relative to /etc/neorc
(can also include /etc/neorc/ in the service name).

.SH OPTIONS
If no option is given,
.B neorc
will just print a small diagnostic message to stdout, saying if the
service is up, down or finished, which PID it has if it is up, and for
how long it has been in this state.
.TP 5
.B \-u
Up.
If the service is not running, start it.
If the service stops, restart it.
.TP
.B \-o
Once.
If the service is not running, start it.
If the service stops, do not restart it.
.TP
.B \-d
Down.
If the service is running, send it a TERM signal and then a CONT signal.
After it stops, do not restart it.
.TP
.B \-R
Enable Respawn.
Set respawn option. This does not start/stop the service.
.TP
.B \-r
Disable Respawn.
Unset respawn option. This does not start/stop the service.
.TP
.B \-t
Terminate.
Send the service a TERM signal.
.TP
.B \-k
Terminate.
Send the service a KILL signal.
.TP
.B \-P \fIpid\fR
Set PID.
Tell neoinit the PID of the service is really \fIpid\fR.  This is useful
for services that fork themselves in the background but put their real
PID in a file, typically called /var/run/\fIservice\fR.pid.
.TP
.B \-D \fIservice\fR
Print dependencies.
This will print all the names of all the services that were started
because this services depended on them.  Please note that this is not
done recursively (i.e. if default depends on qmail and qmail depends on
log, this will print qmail, not qmail/log.  But neorc -D qmail will print
qmail/log).
.TP
.B \-H
Print history.
This will print the names of the ten least recently spawned processes.
This is useful if you see a process looping (initialization fails and
neoinit is restarting it all the time).

.SH "RETURN CODES"
Generally, neorc return zero if everything is OK or 1 on error (could not
open /etc/neorc/in or /etc/neorc/out or there is no process with the
given name).  In diagnostic mode, it will exit 0 if the service is up, 2
if it is down or 3 if it is finished.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
neoinit(8)
